# ADVENT OF CYBER 2025

## ADVENT OF CYBER PREP

Before starting the AoC 2025 room, you can take the warmup room to get just prepare for teh main room. The warmup room is nothing hard or out of this world, just the basics of the basics which would be used later in the main room

## LINUX CLI -SHELLS BELLS

Working with the Linux CLI

- But, there is no graphical interface (GUI) on the server! How will we look for clues?
- Who needs a GUI when we have a Linux command-line terminal? It’s even better!


The terminal has always been better 🤗

Access to ssh into the system is provided and all we need to do is explore.

I started out with ```ls``` which gave me the available directories aming were two interesting items, README.txt and Guides

```
For all TBFC members,
Yesterday I spotted yet another Eggsploit on our servers.
Not sure what it means yet, but Wareville is in danger.
To be prepared, I'll write the security guide by tomorrow.
As a precaution, I'll also hide the guide from plain view.
~ McSkidy
```
Now, from the README.txt, I know that I should look into the Guide directory.

Checking the Guide directory using ls and I discover the .readme.txt file.
```
cat .readme.txt

I think King Malhare from HopSec Island is preparing for an attack.
Not sure what his goal is, but Eggsploits on our servers are not good.
Be ready to protect Christmas by following this Linux guide:

Check /var/log/ and grep inside, let the logs become your guide.
Look for eggs that want to hide, check their shells for what's inside!

P.S. Great job finding the guide. Your flag is:
-----------------------------------------------
THM{********-*****-***}
-----------------------------------------------

```

moving on, as stated in the readme file, we would check the logs using ```ls /var/log``` to see the available logs of which a very important one we always pay attention to is the auth.log file which has the logs for authentications on the system.

Went through the auth.log file and discovered several failed password attempt and I saw one which was not from an IP address like the others. I went to check the users directories to see anything interesting.

Saw a wishlist and an attractive bash script.

bash script
```
cat wishlist.txt | sort | uniq > /tmp/dump.txt
rm wishlist.txt && echo "Chistmas is fading..."
mv eastmas.txt wishlist.txt && echo "EASTMAS is invading!"
```

Then I looked into the running processes and saw that we actually have permission to switch user to root without authentication

Did it and go the next flag located in the root directory  using ```cat .bash_history```
